[MUSIC] Git is a very popular version
control system for software. We need Git for working with our node ecosystem that we're going to use
throughout this specialization. So it is important for
you to get Git on to your computer. So let's go through a few quick steps
to set up Git on your computer and then some quick commands to enable us to
make use of Git in this specialization. I will not go into too much details
about version control and how Git works, and so on. That is beyond the scope of this course. Instead, we'll just get some
basic understanding of Git. Git is, as I said,
a version control system. This is a software tool
that enables us for the management of changes to source code
and maintaining your version history. So as your source code evolves, you will be able to check in the code
at different points of times so that you can always have a way of
rolling back to a previous version, in case your updates to the code
doesn't work correctly. There are various version control systems
that are in use in the real world, including CVS, SVN, and Git being a very popular mechanism for
version control these days. Where did Git originate? Git was designed by Linus Torvalds, the
person behind the Linux Operating System. Git was designed as a version control
system and distributed version control system for
use in Linux kernel development and it has seen much wider deployment
in the real world, these days. That node ecosystem is very
much tied into Git and that is the reason why we need Git for
this specialization. Let's now move on to
a Few hands on exercises, where you will first set up Git. Then you will learn a few
basic Git commands. And then also understand how you
can set up an online repository in places like Git Hub or Bit Bucket for synchronizing your source code from
your computer to the online repository. This is obviously not a comprehensive
tutorial on the Git but we'll learn just enough, that of the commands that are
necessary for use in this specialization. Let's now run through a few quick
steps to set up Git on your computer. One easy way of setting
up Git on a computer is to go to this site called git-sem.com. And then download the Git
installation files from there. So when you visit this website,
git.scm.com, you will see on the right-hand side, here,
a button for you to download to Git. If you want to you can go directly to
the Downloads page here on the site, and then you will find the downloads for
various platforms and you can download the one for
your specific platform for installation. This is the easiest way of
getting Git onto your computer. There are other ways of setting up Git,
depending on your platform. For example, if you install
GitHub Desktop on your computer, it'll automatically set up Git for you. If you are using a Mac and
you set up x code and especially the x code command line tools,
that will also set up Git for you. On this site, gitscm.com,
if you go to the documentation page you will notice that there is
a book here called Pro Git. You can just go on to
the Getting Started link. You will see a specific chapter
here on Installing git. So just go to this Installing Git site and
there you have more details about how to install Git
on your specific platform. So you can use any of
the methods suggested here for installing Git on your platform. This is fairly straight forward so I'm not going to go through
the details of how to do the set up. Download the installer and run through
the set up to get Git on to your computer. Once you install Git on a computer
Start up a command window or PowerShell if you're
using a Window machine or start up a terminal window
if you're using a Mac or Linux machine and
then at the prompt type in git --version to check what version of
git is installed on your computer. So on my machine I have this current
version of git installed and that is good enough for me to work with. Once we verify that Git is installed,
we will configure a couple of global identity parameters,
the username and email address. So that whenever Git does in
a comics as you will learn later, it will make use of this information. To do that, at the prompt type
git config --global user.name, and then you can type in your user name. The other parameter that I'm
going to configure is my email. And to insure that this
information has been configured, we can type git config list. And it will list out a bunch of
configurations that we have. Done. Some of these are automatically set up for
you. But if you want to,
you can set them up as you require. So here I have my core
editor value set to vi, which is what I use to do
command line editing of files. So, with this, we have completed
the setup git for use on our computer. Once you get git on your computer it
is time to go and learn git bit by bit. [MUSIC]